# Women Also Know Stuff: Challenging the Gender Gap in Political Sophistication

## Introduction

Replication files and supplementary material for an article titled "Women Also Know Stuff: Challenging the Gender Gap in Political Sophistication," conditionally accepted at *American Political Science Review*. The files described here can be found in the APSR Dataverse at https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/TPXVM4.

## Article abstract

This article proposes a simple but powerful framework to measure political sophistication based on open-ended survey responses. *Discursive sophistication* uses automated text analysis methods to capture the complexity of individual attitude expression. I validate the approach by comparing it to conventional political knowledge metrics using different batteries of open-ended items across five surveys spanning four languages (total N = 35,000). The new measure casts doubt on the oft-cited gender gap in political knowledge: Women might know fewer facts about institutions and elites, but they do not differ substantively in the sophistication of their expressed political attitudes.

## Replication instructions

This repository contains all the R code and data sets necessary to replicate or reproduce all reported data analyses presented in the main manuscript and the supplementary appendix. To facilitate direct comparisons between replication and original, the repository already contains the output generated using each script on the author's system. Before executing any of the R code, please make sure that all dependencies are installed on your system (see all required packages listed in `00-func.R`). Install missing packages via `install.packages()` in R. Please maintain the folder structure described below and set your working directory to the location of the R scripts (`00-func.R`, `01-data.R`, `02-analyses.R`, `03-appendix.R`). Each script can be executed individually to reproduce a specific set of analyses (see details below) or all of them sequentially according to the file name numbering to reproduce every single step in the data processing and analysis sequence.

## Folder structure & file description

- `00-func.R`: Load required packages and custom functions.
- `01-data.R`: Load raw data, preprocess text, export for analysis.
- `02-analyses.R`: Main analyses reported in manuscript (+ appendix tables).
- `03-appendix.R`: Additional robustness checks reported in the appendix.
- `data/`: Folder containing required data sets. See details below.
  - `processed.Rdata`: Processed data files; created by running `01-data.R`, used as input for `02-analyses.R` and `03-appendix.R`.
  - `raw.Rdata`: Raw data files, used as input for `01-data.R`.
- `out/`: Folder containing all figures and tables reported in the main text (output generated by running `02-analyses.R`) as well as the appendix (output generated by running `03-appendix.R`). See details below.
  - `fig1a-corplot_cces2018.pdf`, `fig1b-corplot_anes2020.pdf`, `fig1c-corplot_anes2016.pdf`, `fig1d-corplot_anes2012.pdf`: Figure 1: Correlation matrix of discursive sophistication and conventional political knowledge metrics.
  - `fig2-knoweff.pdf`: Figure 2: Effects of political sophistication on turnout, political interest, internal efficacy, and external efficacy in the CES and ANES.
  - `fig3-yg_disease.pdf`: Figure 3: Expected information retrieval in the 2015 YouGov Study as a function of political sophistication.
  - `fig4-swiss_ggridges.pdf`: Figure 4: Discursive sophistication and manually coded level of justification in Swiss post-referendum surveys.
  - `fig5-meandiff.pdf`: Figure 5: The gender gap in political sophistication.
  - `fig6-determinants.pdf`: Figure 6: The gender gap in political sophistication controlling for common determinants.
  - `fig7-stm_gender.pdf`: Figure 7: Gender differences in topic proportions in open-ended responses based on the structural topic model used to compute discursive sophistication.
  - `tab1-factload.tex`: Table 1: Factor loadings of discursive sophistication components.
  - `tab2-examples.csv`, `tab2-selection.csv`: Table 2: Example of open-ended responses for low and high scores on discursive sophistication with equal factual knowledge scores (3 out of 5 correct responses).
  - `appB1-wc.pdf`: Figure B.1: Total word count across all open-ended responses for each survey participant.
  - `appB2-noresponse.pdf`: Figure B.2: Proportion of non-response comparing male and female survey participants.
  - `appB3-stm_prop.pdf`: Figure B.3: Estimated topic proportions based on the structural topic model.
  - `appB4a-ces2018_components.pdf`, `appB4b-yg2015_components.pdf`, `appB4c-anes2020_components.pdf`, `appB4d-anes2016_components.pdf`, `appB4e-anes2012_components.pdf`, `appB4f-french_components.pdf`, `appB4g-german_components.pdf`, `appB4h-italian_components.pdf`: Figure B.4: Correlation matrix of individual components of discursive sophistication.
  - `appC1-pretext.pdf`: Figure C.1: PreText analysis of preprocessing decisions of open-ended responses across all data sets.
  - `appC2-pretext_robustness.png`: Figure C.2: Robustness of discursive sophistication measure for different preprocessing choices and topic model specifications.
  - `appC3-knoweff_robust.pdf`: Figure C.3: Effects of sophistication on internal efficacy, external efficacy, non-conventional participation, and turnout in the 2012 and 2016 ANES.
  - `appC4-placements_dk.pdf`: Figure C.4: Effects of sophistication on the probability of respondents to answer "Don't Know" when asked to place individual politicians, parties, and institutions on the ideological spectrum from liberal to conservative in the 2018 CES.
  - `appC5-placements.pdf`: Figure C.5: Effects of sophistication on the uncertainty around ideological placements of politicians, parties, and institutions in the 2018 CES (measured in standard deviations).
  - `appC6-correct_vote.pdf`: Figure C.6: Expected probability to vote for the senatorial candidate based on ideological proximity as a function of political sophistication
  - `appC7-media_trust.pdf`: Figure C.7: Average trust in different news outlets as a function of political sophistication.
  - `appC1-correct_vote.tex`: Table C.1: Logistic regression predicting ideological proximity-based voting for US Senators in the 2018 CES.
  - `appC2-determinants_rob_disc.tex`: Table C.2: Personality, verbal skills, and survey mode as predictors of discursive sophistication in the 2016 and 2012 ANES.
  - `appC3-determinants_rob_fact.tex`: Table C.3: Personality, verbal skills, and survey mode as predictors of factual knowledge in the 2016 and 2012 ANES.
  - `appD01-knoweff2018cces1.tex`: Table D.1: Effects of sophistication on turnout and political interest in the 2018 CES.
  - `appD02-knoweff2018cces2.tex`: Table D.2: Effects of sophistication on turnout, political interest, internal efficacy, and external efficacy in the 2018 CES.
  - `appD03-knoweff2020anes1.tex`: Table D.3: Effects of sophistication on turnout and political interest in the 2020 ANES.
  - `appD04-knoweff2020anes2.tex`: Table D.4: Effects of sophistication on internal and external efficacy in the 2020 ANES.
  - `appD05-knoweff2016anes1.tex`: Table D.5: Effects of sophistication on turnout and political interest in the 2016 ANES.
  - `appD06-knoweff2016anes2.tex`: Table D.6: Effects of sophistication on internal and external efficacy in the 2016 ANES.
  - `appD07-knoweff2012anes1.tex`: Table D.7: Effects of sophistication on turnout and political interest in the 2012 ANES.
  - `appD08-knoweff2012anes2.tex`: Table D.8: Effects of sophistication on internal and external efficacy in the 2012 ANES.
  - `appD09-yg_disease.tex`: Table D.9: Linear regressions predicting information retrieval in the 2015 YouGov study.
  - `appD10-determinants_text.tex`: Table D.10: Linear regressions predicting discursive sophistication in the CES, ANES, and YouGov study.
  - `appD11-determinants_swiss.tex`: Table D.11: Linear regressions predicting discursive sophistication in the Swiss referendum study.
  - `appD12-determinants_factual.tex`: Table D.12: Linear regressions predicting factual knowledge in the CES, ANES, and YouGov study.
- `info/`: Folder containing supplemental information.
  - `IRB-Exempt.pdf`: Notice of IRB Exempt Status.
  - `SupplementaryMaterial.pdf`: Appendix file.
  - `SurveyQuestions.pdf`: Question wording for each study.
